{\rtf1\ansi
{\fonttbl
{\f0\fswiss Helvetica;}
{\f1\fmodern Courier;}
{\f2\froman Times;}
{\f3\froman Symbol;}
}
{\info{\comment Translated from SGML to RTF w/ Linuxdoc-SGML}}

\page{\pard\plain\keepn\f0\fs36\b\tx576{1 What is Open Source Software ?}}
{}#{\footnote TOC_0}

${\footnote What_is_Open_Source_Software__}
+{\footnote browse}
\par\pard\plain\li500\sb200\fi0
{}K{\footnote What is Open Source Software ?}

\par\pard\plain
\li500{}
\sb200\fi0
There are a wide variety of phrases used and misused in describing software 
whose source is freely available. In fact, a plethora of licensing schemes 
are available for such software. Commonly used terms include Open Source, 
Free Software, Freeware, Shareware and Public Domain software. Recently Eric  
Raymond has created \url{urlnam} where he provides a  
definition of the Open Source certification mark and links to a variety of  
conforming software licenses at \url{urlnam}.
\par\pard\plain
\li500{}
\sb200\fi0
Richard Stallman and the Free Software Foundation have provided an extensive 
review of the many categories of software whose source is available at 
\url{urlnam}. This article will 
not attempt to delve into the vagaries and nuances of the specifics of each 
of these licenses and categories. The term Open Source Software will be used 
to include all software whose source code is freely available and openly  
accessible. This will include Freeware and Shareware when accompanied by 
source (e.g. XV) as well as commercial products whose source is freely  
available (e.g. Mini-SQL).
\par\pard\plain
\li500{}
\sb200\fi0

\page{\pard\plain\keepn\f0\fs36\b\tx576{2 Open Source Components in SCO Products}}
{}#{\footnote TOC_1}

${\footnote Open_Source_Components_in_SCO_Products}
+{\footnote browse}
\par\pard\plain\li500\sb200\fi0
{}K{\footnote Open Source Components in SCO Products}

Recent months have seen an explosion in Open Source awareness. However, freely 
available source code has been with us for dozens of years. Much of the 
infrastructure of the Internet is based on Open Source software. Many of 
the core components of a UNIX operating environment are Open Source.
\par\pard\plain
\li500{}
\sb200\fi0
Examples of Open Source components in standard UNIX environments include 
the mail transport agent {\b sendmail}, the Berkeley Internet Name Domain 
{\b BIND}, Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol {\b DHCP}, 
the InterNetNews server {\b INN} and the X11 graphical windowing system 
{\b X}.
\par\pard\plain
\li500{}
\sb200\fi0
Many Open Source components derived from research work done at Universities. 
Partly in support of this research the UNIX operating system source has 
traditionally been offered to Universities at a minimal licensing fee. When 
SCO acquired the rights to early UNIX source (the Mini UNIX operating system;  
the UNIX V6 operating system; the PWB UNIX operating system; and the UNIX V7  
operating system, which also covers Editions 1-5, and the 32V), source licenses 
were made available at cost.
\par\pard\plain
\li500{}
\sb200\fi0

\page{\pard\plain\keepn\f0\fs36\b\tx576{3 What is SCO Skunkware ?}}
{}#{\footnote TOC_2}

${\footnote What_is_SCO_Skunkware__}
+{\footnote browse}
\par\pard\plain\li500\sb200\fi0
{}K{\footnote What is SCO Skunkware ?}

SCO Skunkware is the generic name for a free collection of software  
prebuilt and prepackaged for installation on SCO systems. The SCO OpenServer 
5.0.5 and UnixWare 7 media kits contain an SCO Skunkware CD engineered  
specifically for that operating system.
\par\pard\plain
\li500{}
\sb200\fi0
Distributions are released on CD periodically and a repository of this  
and previous distributions as well as updates and corrections can  
always be found at \url{urlnam}. The SCO Skunkware 
CD can also be ordered online via \url{urlnam}.
\par\pard\plain
\li500{}
\sb200\fi0
SCO Skunkware contains a wide variety of software ranging from educational 
and experimental research tools to commercial grade software suitable for 
use on a production server. 
\par\pard\plain
\li500{}
\sb200\fi0
It is provided for free and is not formally supported by SCO. However,  
Skunkware is undergoing something of a repositioning as previously unsupported 
components move into the standard supported product. What has, in the past, 
been known as Skunkware will likely continue to exist as a component of a 
more traditionally supported Open Source supplement.
\par\pard\plain
\li500{}
\sb200\fi0
The software on the Skunkware CD-ROM is licensed under a variety 
of terms. Much of it is licensed under the terms of the  
\url{GNU General Public License}. 
Some is licensed under the 
\url{GNU Library General Public License}. 
Other components are licensed under the 
\url{Artistic License}. Many of the components are 
"Freeware" with no restrictions on their redistribution while a few components 
are "Shareware" meaning the author would like you to try the software and, 
if you wish to use it, send her some money. A few components are commercial 
products which can be used freely for non-commercial purposes. 
Some components simply restrict their use to non-commercial purposes.
\par\pard\plain
\li500{}
\sb200\fi0
To determine the licensing conditions for a particular component, see the 
corresponding source in the \url{source directory}. With the infrequent exception of SCO proprietary  
code, all Skunkware components are accompanied by the source used to build them.
\par\pard\plain
\li500{}
\sb200\fi0
The Santa Cruz Operation, Inc. and SCO Skunkware are not 
related to, affiliated with or licensed by the famous Lockheed 
Martin Skunk Works (R), the creator of the F-117 Stealth Fighter, 
SR-71, U-2, Venturestar(tm), Darkstar(tm), and other pioneering 
air and spacecraft.
\par\pard\plain
\li500{}
\sb200\fi0

\page{\pard\plain\keepn\f0\fs36\b\tx576{4 Open Source Components in SCO Skunkware}}
{}#{\footnote TOC_3}

${\footnote Open_Source_Components_in_SCO_Skunkware}
+{\footnote browse}
\par\pard\plain\li500\sb200\fi0
{}K{\footnote Open Source Components in SCO Skunkware}

SCO utilizes Skunkware as a delivery mechanism for Open Source components 
which can provide customers with integrated solutions in a wide variety of 
emergant enabling technologies and productivity tools. Among these are: 
\par\pard\plain
\li1000{}
\sb200\fi0
\li1000{}\fi-200{\f3\'B7} {\b The GNU C Compilation system} - perhaps the most widely used  
cross platform C/C++/Objective C and Fortran development environment
\par\pard\plain
\li1000{}
\sb200\fi0
\li1000{}\fi-200{\f3\'B7} {\b Mtools} - utilities to access DOS disks and manipulate DOS files  
and directories
\par\pard\plain
\li1000{}
\sb200\fi0
\li1000{}\fi-200{\f3\'B7} {\b Industry standard scripting languages} - Perl, Tcl, TclX, Tk,  
Python, BLT, Itcl and Expect
\par\pard\plain
\li1000{}
\sb200\fi0
\li1000{}\fi-200{\f3\'B7} {\b Internet/Networking servers and tools} - the latest releases of  
Apache, the world's most widely used commercial grade web server; Squid, a high 
performance cacheing proxy server; INN, a complete USENET news server; Enhydra, 
a Java application server; IRC, internet relay chat clients and server
\par\pard\plain
\li1000{}
\sb200\fi0
\li1000{}\fi-200{\f3\'B7} {\b Editors and text processing tools} - groff, SGML-Tools, TeX, 
xcoral, xemacs, ghostscript, vim, xhtml
\par\pard\plain
\li1000{}
\sb200\fi0
\li1000{}\fi-200{\f3\'B7} {\b Java applications, servlets, classes and development kits} -  
the Java Servlet Development Kit, the Java Foundation Classes (Swing), the  
Apache JServ server-side Java module, Apache JMeter URL performance meter,  
the Acme labs Java classes and applications, VRwave VRML browser, Jikes Java  
bytecode compiler, Java bytecode editors/debuggers/obfuscators/disassemblers
\par\pard\plain
\li1000{}
\sb200\fi0
\li1000{}\fi-200{\f3\'B7} {\b Multi-media content creation and viewing tools} - the GNU Image  
Manipulation Program (Photoshop-like facility), ImageMagick image processing 
suite, Xanim animation viewer, MPEG 3 audio encoder and player, MIDI player, 
audio editing and conversion tools, graphic file conversion and manipulation 
libraries and tools
\par\pard\plain
\li1000{}
\sb200\fi0
\li1000{}\fi-200{\f3\'B7} {\b System administration and security tools} - Sentry and Strobe  
port scan detector and optimized TCP port surveyor, Cgiwrap for secure user  
access to CGI, Procdump and Top for information about live processes or core  
image, RPM the Redhat Package Manager
\par\pard\plain
\li1000{}
\sb200\fi0
\li1000{}\fi-200{\f3\'B7} {\b Database servers and clients} - MySQL, a threaded light-weight  
powerful SQL relational database management system; Addressbook, an on-line  
rolodex; Mini-SQL, another SQL relational database management system
\par\pard\plain
\li1000{}
\sb200\fi0
\li1000{}\fi-200{\f3\'B7} {\b Alternate shells and window managers} - Bash/Zsh/Tcsh,  
WindowMaker, KDE
\par\pard\plain
\li500{}
\sb200\fi0
Skunkware also contains a gaggle of games, graphics, eye candy and amusements 
including: 
\par\pard\plain
\li1000{}
\sb200\fi0
\li1000{}\fi-200{\f3\'B7} {\b X11 based adventure and video games} - Xdoom, Xgalaga, Xboing,  
Xpool, Xmame
\par\pard\plain
\li1000{}
\sb200\fi0
\li1000{}\fi-200{\f3\'B7} {\b Mathematical recreations and research tools} for exploring chaotic 
dynamical systems, iterated function systems, Lyapunov and Mandelbrot sets, ...
\par\pard\plain
\li1000{}
\sb200\fi0
\li1000{}\fi-200{\f3\'B7} {\b Miscellaneous fun and interesting stuff} - create graphical  
astrology charts, simulate a fish tank, display your Scottish tartan
\par\pard\plain
\li500{}
\sb200\fi0
A full list of hundreds of currently shipping Skunkware components can be  
found at \url{urlnam}
\par\pard\plain
\li500{}
\sb200\fi0

\page{\pard\plain\keepn\f0\fs36\b\tx576{5 The Open Source Support Model}}
{}#{\footnote TOC_4}

${\footnote The_Open_Source_Support_Model}
+{\footnote browse}
\par\pard\plain\li500\sb200\fi0
{}K{\footnote The Open Source Support Model}

Open Source Software and SCO Skunkware have an alternative support model. 
Since the source is available, it is often possible for the end-user to 
self-support or to easily consult with local experts. Further, due to the 
communal and open environment in which the software is developed (see below), 
there are often quite active and technically adept online discussion groups, 
mailing lists, web sites and ftp download areas for patches and updates.
\par\pard\plain
\li500{}
\sb200\fi0
One drawback to this model is that it is difficult for a vendor to provide 
monolithic support for a rapidly diverging Open Source product as the user 
base modifies their source code and rebuilds the system. Note that a recent 
survey of vendors of an Open Source operating system (Linux) revealed that 
there are over 40 commercial variants of Linux. This can pose severe 
compatibility, interoperability and support problems.
\par\pard\plain
\li500{}
\sb200\fi0

\page{\pard\plain\keepn\f0\fs36\b\tx576{6 The Open Source Development Model}}
{}#{\footnote TOC_5}

${\footnote The_Open_Source_Development_Model}
+{\footnote browse}
\par\pard\plain\li500\sb200\fi0
{}K{\footnote The Open Source Development Model}

Open Source development teams are rapidly emerging as the dominant force 
behind the continuing evolution of computing. Eric Raymond's paper, 
The Cathedral and The Bazaar  
(\url{urlnam}) 
details the philosophy, scope and social organization of this model. 
"Release early and often, delegate everything you can, be 
open to the point of promiscuity" is a development philosophy sharply 
in contradistinction with the conservatively centralized approach 
of the traditional development model in which large software projects 
were "built like cathedrals, carefully crafted by individual  
wizards or small bands of mages working in splendid isolation, with no  
beta to be released before its time".
\par\pard\plain
\li500{}
\sb200\fi0
SCO is attempting to synthesize these models - carefully protecting 
those customers heavily invested in the stability, interoperability 
and compatibility offered by the traditional approach while rapidly 
deploying emerging technologies and methodologies offered by the bazaar.
\par\pard\plain
\li500{}
\sb200\fi0

\page{\pard\plain\keepn\f0\fs36\b\tx576{7 Linux Emulation}}
{}#{\footnote TOC_6}

${\footnote Linux_Emulation}
+{\footnote browse}
\par\pard\plain\li500\sb200\fi0
{}K{\footnote Linux Emulation}

SCO recently engaged in an Open Source project which oversees the development 
and distribution of lxrun, a Linux emulation system. This open source project 
is being incorporated into UnixWare 7 as a supported feature of the operating 
system. Additional details on lxrun are available at 
\url{urlnam}.
\par\pard\plain
\li500{}
\sb200\fi0
The lxrun project is an example of how rapidly an open source project can 
evolve. It's also an example of one of the many Skunkware components that 
are being absorbed into the standard supported product. 
\par\pard\plain
\li500{}
\sb200\fi0

\page{\pard\plain\keepn\f0\fs36\b\tx576{8 The Skunkware Submission Process}}
{}#{\footnote TOC_7}

${\footnote The_Skunkware_Submission_Process}
+{\footnote browse}
\par\pard\plain\li500\sb200\fi0
{}K{\footnote The Skunkware Submission Process}

If you would like to contribute to the ongoing effort to provide quality 
Open Source products to SCO customers: 
\par\pard\plain
\li1000{}
\sb200\fi0
\li1000{}\fi-200{\f3\'B7} Read the Skunkware FAQ at  
\url{urlnam}
\par\pard\plain
\li1000{}
\sb200\fi0
\li1000{}\fi-200{\f3\'B7} Read the Skunkware submission guidelines at  
\url{urlnam}
\par\pard\plain
\li1000{}
\sb200\fi0
\li1000{}\fi-200{\f3\'B7} Join the polecats mailing list by sending an e-mail message  
to listproc@listproc.sco.com with any subject line and a single line  
in the body of the message: 

\par\pard\sb200\keep\li1500{}{\f1 \line
\line
\par\pard\sb200\keep\li2000{}{\f1       subscribe polecats-l}\line
\par\pard\sb200\li1500{}}
\par\pard\sb200\li1000{}\par\pard\plain
\li500{}
\sb200\fi0

\page{\pard\plain\keepn\f0\fs36\b\tx576{9 Author and Contributors}}
{}#{\footnote TOC_8}

${\footnote Author_and_Contributors}
+{\footnote browse}
\par\pard\plain\li500\sb200\fi0
{}K{\footnote Author and Contributors}

\url{Ronald Joe Record} has worked for  
\url{The Santa Cruz Operation}  
for over 15 years.  
\par\pard\plain
\li500{}
\sb200\fi0
Record holds a  
\url{Ph.D.}  
in Mathematics from the  
\url{University of California}.
\par\pard\plain
\li500{}
\sb200\fi0
David Eyes  
{\f1 \url{(davidey@sco.com)}} 
contributed to this document in design, review and editorial matters.
\par\pard\plain
\li500{}
\sb200\fi0

\page{\pard\plain\keepn\f0\fs36\b\tx576{10 About This Document}}
{}#{\footnote TOC_9}

${\footnote About_This_Document}
+{\footnote browse}
\par\pard\plain\li500\sb200\fi0
{}K{\footnote About This Document}

This document was created using SGML-Tools 1.0.6 in conjunction with TeX,  
Version 3.14159 (Web2C 7.2) running on an SCO UnixWare 7 platform. 
\par\pard\plain
\li500{}
\sb200\fi0
The source to this document is maintained at 
\url{urlnam}. 
A Makefile and formatted varieties of this document are also available at 
\url{urlnam}. For instance, 
you will find a postscript version at 
\url{urlnam}.
\par\pard\plain
\li500{}
\sb200\fi0
}