Using the UnixWare MHS Gateway


NOVELL TECHNICAL INFORMATION DOCUMENT
DOCUMENT ID: TID015299
DATE: 04MAR94
UNIXWARE VERSION: UnixWare 1.x

CATEGORY: Mail

ABSTRACT:
The UnixWare MHS gateway allows MHS mail to be routed to UnixWare, 
which will pass it on through smtp. Conversely, it will allow smtp mail users 
have their mail routed to MHS. This document outlines configuration 
and troubleshooting procedures.

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

*** IMPORTANT ***

Before proceeding, implement the Problems section at the 
bottom of this document.
 
Unix typically uses smtp (simple mail transfer protocol) 
to transfer mail through uucp or TCP/IP.  With the 
advent of UnixWare you have the ability to send mail in 
another way, MHS (Message Handling System.)  MHS was 
developed by Novell and is one of the many mail 
standards used in the industry today.
 
MHS on a NetWare server acts as a traffic cop to mail 
coming into it.  It determines where mail belongs by two 
ways; the username and gateway or domain name.  For MHS 
to forward the mail to the MHS gateway instead of 
delivering it to a user, a gateway is created on the MHS 
package on the NetWare server.  The gateway is only a 
mailbox where mail gets deposited if mail comes into MHS 
addressed to that gateway.
 
Example:

     If a message is sent from MHS addressed to 
howie@unihost, MHS searches for a gateway called 
unihost.  If it finds one, it puts that message into the 
gateway directory on the NetWare server.  Conversely, 
when mail is sent from UnixWare, it gets put into a 
directory on the NetWare server for MHS to pick up and 
deliver.
 
Configuring the UnixWare MHS Gateway

To configure MHS on UnixWare, run System Setup, then MHS 
Setup.  The field definitions are as follows.  Online 
help is also available when in the MHS Setup window.
 
Note:  Use all lowercase letters in all fields.


Configuration Window

MHS Gateway:
     This is the name of the Gateway that was configured 
on the MHS server.  The Gateway name can be any name up 
to eight characters.  Special characters should be 
avoided.
 
     Example:     unihost

Internet Gateway:
     This is a subdomain name that you will want to use 
to route mail through the MHS gateway.  This field 
should just contain "mhs".
 
     Example:     mhs

MHS File Server:
     This is the name of the file server running MHS.

     Example:     big-mail-server

MHS Volume:
     This is the volume name on the file server where 
the MHS system resides.  Note:  Do not put a colon (:) 
after the name.
 
     Example:     sys

MHS Login:
     The is the name of a user on the NetWare file 
server with trustee rights to the MHS directory.  This 
user must not be a supervisor equivalent.
 
     Example:     mhsdude

MHS Password:
     This is the password for the user on the NetWare 
file server with trustee rights to the MHS directory.
 
MHS Mail Check Interval:
     This is frequency that UnixWare checks for incoming mail.

When you click on Apply at the Configuration window, the 
following three main things occur:
 
1.     It puts the configuration information into the 
/etc/mail/smfcnfg directory.
 
2.     It creates a cron job in 
/var/spool/cron/crontabs/mhsmail directory.
 
3.     If rebuilds your /etc/mail/mailsurr file based on 
/usr/lib/mail/mailsurr.proto.  The mailsurr.proto file 
is the file where all mailsurr changes should be made.
 
Important Note:
The MHS Gateway should only be run on one UnixWare 
machine for each gateway configured on the MHS system.  
Otherwise, strange results can occur.
 

How the MHS Gateway Works

At the specified interval, the following command is run by cron:

     /usr/lib/mail/surrcmd/smf-poll

This polling program attaches to the NetWare server 
defined in the setup and checks the gateway directory 
for mail.  This gateway directory on NetWare Global MHS 
is usually the SYS:MHS\MAIL\GATES\GatewayName\OUT 
directory.  If mail is there, it will pick it up and 
deliver it to the users on the UnixWare machine.
 

Sending Mail

With the MHS gateway in place, you can send mail to the 
UnixWare machine using MHS instead of the internet.
 
þ     Sending mail from MHS to UnixWare

     To send from a package, such as DaVinci, to a user 
on the UnixWare gateway, address it to:
 
          username@gatewayname

          Example:  howie@unihost

          The user must exist on the UnixWare host; the 
username must be in the /etc/mail/names file, another 
alias file, or a smarterhost must be defined; otherwise 
the mail will be returned.
 
þ     Sending mail from UnixWare to MHS

     *     If you want to send mail through MHS, you 
address the message as follows:
 
               username@mhs.InternetDomain

          where InternetDomain is the domain of the 
UnixWare machine
 
               Example:  tjones@mhs.acctg.novell.com

     *     If you want to bypass using the internet 
domain in this context, you would address as follows:
 
               tjones@mhs

          See the Customization section below.

     *     If you want to send mail through Internet, 
bypassing MHS, address the message as follows:
 
               username@InternetDomain

               Example:     bamund@novell.com

                         bamund@fred.acctg.novell.com

Configuring MHS on NetWare

1.     Simply configure a gateway with a valid name, 
eight characters or less.  Make the gateway a version 
70.
 
2.     Create a NetWare user with trustee rights to the 
MHS directory.  This user must not be supervisor 
equivalent.
 
Alias Addressing

A file in the /etc/mail directory called names is just 
an alias for users so mail forwarding can be done.
 
The syntax is the following:

     alias  real.mail.address

     Example:     bryan  bamund@fred.acctg.novell.com
               alex    ajones@mhs.acctg.novell.com

Therefore, if someone sends mail to bryan@unihost and 
the mail is delivered to the UnixWare machine running 
the MHS Gateway, the mail will be forwarded to bamund on 
machine fred.
 
The second example would receive mail for alex onto the 
UnixWare machine and forward it to ajones on the mhs 
side.
 

Customization

To bypass the need to use the internet domain when 
sending mail from UnixWare to the MHS gateway, that is 
instead of tjones@mhs.acctg.novell.com, you could just 
do, tjones@mhs, do the following:
 
1.     Modify the mailsurr.proto file using the 
following command:
 
          vi /usr/lib/mail/mailsurr.proto

     Duplicate the following line near line 82:

         '.+'    '([^@,:]+)@(.+).%g%D '< B=4096;
     /usr/lib/mail/surrcmd/smfqueue -h 0 -r %R '
     '\\1@\\2.%g%D'

     Modify the duplicate line by removing the %D in the 
first part of the line as shown in the following 
example:
 
         '.+'    '([^@,:]+)@(.+).%g '< B=4096;
     /usr/lib/mail/surrcmd/smfqueue -h 0 -r %R '
     '\\1@\\2.%g%D'

2.     Now issue the following command:

          /usr/lib/mail/surrcmd/createSurr


Troubleshooting

þ     Try running the command: 
/usr/lib/mail/surrcmd/smf-poll manually.  This polling 
program attaches to the NetWare server defined in the 
setup and checks the gateway directory for mail.
 
þ     You may also want to see if the following 
directory is populated by MHS:
 
          SYS:MHS\MAIL\GATES\GatewayName\OUT

     Also check the IN directory when you send mail to 
see if the mail is reaching the NetWare server.
 
þ     The log file, /var/spool/smf/LOG, may contain 
helpful information about what is occurring on the 
UnixWare machine regarding gateway activity.
 
þ     To recreate your /etc/mail/mailsurr file from the 
/usr/lib/mail/mailsurr.proto file given your current 
mail configuration, run the following command:
 
          /usr/lib/mail/surrcmd/createSurr

þ     See the section below regarding UnixWare 1.1 MHS problems.


PROBLEMS:

UnixWare 1.1 MHS

UnixWare 1.1 MHS does not work consistently.  When it 
fails, the log file in the /var/spool/smf directory 
indicates the following:
 
     Cannot open netdir.tab

     or

     no working directory...

Until a UnixWare 1.1 patch can be created, you must do 
the following for the MHS system to properly interface 
with the MHS Gateway on a NetWare server.
 
1.     First run the following command to give the 
smfsched program the proper privileges:
 
          filepriv -f setuid /usr/lib/mail/surrcmd/smfsched

2.     Modify the script by typing the following command:

          /usr/lib/mail/surrcmd/smf-poll

     a.     Look for the following line:

               $gatedir = "$MV/mhs/mail/gates/$mhsGW";

     b.     After this line, add the following two lines:

               system("nwlogout $MAILSERV");
               sleep 5;

     c.     Now look near the bottom of the file for the 
following line:
 
               # 0 = OK

     d.     After this line, you should change all three 
occurrences of the $_.$$ to the following:
 
               $_.use

3.     Modify the script by typing the following command:

          /usr/lib/mail/surrcmd/suid/smf-out

     a.     Look for the following line:

          $gatedir = "$MV/mhs/mail/gates/$mhsGW";

     b.     After this line, add the following two lines:

          system("nwlogout $MAILSERV");
          sleep 5;

After making changes to these scripts, MHS will be able 
to properly communicate with the MHS Gateway.
 






-----------------------------------------------------------------
 Any trademarks referenced in this document are the 
property of their respective owners.  Consult your 
product manuals for complete trademark information.
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------
 
