apache	1	n	application	Apache Web Server
astrolog	1	n	application	Astrology Charts
autoconf	1	n	application	Autoconf
bash	1	n	application	GNU Bourne-Again Shell
bison	1	n	application	GNU Parser Generator
cvs	1	n	application	CVS Version Control System
diffutils	1	n	application	Diff Utilities
expect	1	n	application	Expect
fileutils	1	n	application	File Utilities
findutils	1	n	application	Find Utilities
flex	1	n	application	GNU Lexical Analyzer Generator
gawk	1	n	application	GNU Awk
gcc	1	n	application	GNU Development System
gd	1	n	application	GIF Development Library
gdbm	1	n	application	GNU Database Management
groff	1	n	application	GNU Text Processing
indent	1	n	application	Indent and Format C Program Source
less	1	n	application	Less Paginator
libg++	1	n	application	GNU C++ Library
lynx	1	n	application	Character mode web browser
m4	1	n	application	M4
make	1	n	application	Make
mkpkg	1	n	application	UnixWare Packaging Tools
mpeglib	1	n	application	MPEG Library
mtools	1	n	application	DOS Disk Access Utilities
ncftp	1	n	application	NcFTP
patch	1	n	application	GNU Patch Utility
Perl	1	n	application	Perl
python	1	n	application	Python
rcs	1	n	application	RCS Revision Control System
readline	1	n	application	GNU Readline
rxvt	1	n	application	X11 VT102 Emulator
sh-utils	1	n	application	Shell Utilities
squid	1	n	application	Squid
tar	1	n	application	Tar
tcl	1	n	application	Tcl
tclX	1	n	application	Tcl Extensions
Tcl8	1	n	application	Tcl Version 8
tcsh	1	n	application	Extended C Shell
texinfo	1	n	application	Texinfo
tiff	1	n	application	TIFF Library Package
Tk8	1	n	application	Tk Version 8
tk	1	n	application	Tk
unzip	1	n	application	Unzip
xanim	1	n	application	X11 Animation Viewer
xboing	1	n	application	X11 Blockout clone
xlincity	1	n	application	LinCity
xtartan	1	n	application	Display Tartans
zip	1	n	utilities	Zip
zsh	1	n	utilities	The Z Shell
