
VRweb Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 1995 by the Institute for Information Processing and
Computer Supported New Media (IICM), Graz University of Technology,
Austria.

VRweb software including its component libraries [both binary and
source] (hereafter, Software) is copyrighted by the Institute for
Information Processing and Computer Supported New Media (hereafter,
IICM), Graz University of Technology, Austria, and ownership remains
with the IICM, insofar as it is not already copyrighted. The Software
makes use of certain component libraries under the terms of their
respective owners.

The IICM grants you (hereafter, Licensee) a non-exclusive,
non-transferable licence to use the Software for academic, research
and internal business purposes only, without a fee. The Licensee may
distribute the binary and source code unchanged to third parties,
provided that the copyright notice and this statement appears on all
copies and that no charge is associated with such copies.

The Licensee may make derivative works based on or derived from the
Software for academic, research and internal business purposes. The
Licensee may distribute such derivative works for academic and
research purposes only, provided that:

  1. The Licensee notifies the IICM regarding its distribution of the
     derivative work, and

  2. The Licensee clearly notifies users that such derivative work is
     a modified version and not the original Software, and

  3. No charge is associated with such a derivative work.

Any Licensee wishing to make commercial use of the Software should
contact IICM to negotiate an appropriate licence for such commercial
use. Commercial use includes:

  1. Integration of all or part of the source code into a product for
     sale or licence by or on behalf of the Licensee to third parties,
     or

  2. Distribution of the binary code or source code to third parties
     that need it to utilize a commercial product sold or licensed by
     or on behalf of the Licensee.


IICM MAKES NO REPRESENTATIONS ABOUT THE SUITABILITY OF THIS SOFTWARE
FOR ANY PURPOSE. IT IS PROVIDED "AS IS" WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
WARRANTY. THE IICM SHALL NOT BE LIABLE FOR ANY DAMAGES SUFFERED BY THE
USERS OF THIS SOFTWARE.

By using or copying this Software, the Licensee agrees to abide by the
copyright law and all other applicable laws of Austria, the United
States and other countries and the terms of this licence. IICM shall
have the right to terminate this licence immediately by written notice
upon the Licensee's breach of, or non-compliance with, any of its
terms. The Licensee may be held legally responsible for any copyright
infringement that is caused or encouraged by the Licensee's failure to
abide by the terms of this licence.


  IICM
  Graz University of Technology
  Schiessstattgasse 4a
  A-8010 Graz
  Austria/Europe

